doc/ss-manager.asciidoc, before:

ss-manager(1)
=============

NAME
----
ss-manager - ss-server controller for multi-user management and traffic statistics

SYNOPSIS
--------
*ss-manager*
 [-AuUv] [-h|--help]
 [-s <server_host>] [-p <server_port>] [-l <local_port>]
 [-k <password>] [-m <encrypt_method>] [-f <pid_file>]
 [-t <timeout>] [-c <config_file>] [-i <interface>]
 [-b <local_addr>] [-a <user_name>]
 [--manager-address <path_to_unix_domain>]
 [--executable <path_to_server_executable>]
 [--fast-open] [--reuse-port]
 [--plugin <plugin_name>] [--plugin-opts <plugin_options>]

DESCRIPTION
-----------
*Shadowsocks-libev* is a lightweight and secure socks5 proxy.
It is a port of the original shadowsocks created by clowwindy.
*Shadowsocks-libev* is written in pure C and takes advantage of libev to
achieve both high performance and low resource consumption.

*Shadowsocks-libev* consists of five components.
`ss-manager`(1) is a controller for multi-user management and
traffic statistics, using UNIX domain socket to talk with `ss-server`(1).
Also, it provides a UNIX domain socket or IP based API for other software.
About the details of this API, please refer to the following 'PROTOCOL'
section.

OPTIONS
-------
-s <server_host>::
Set the server's hostname or IP.

-k <password>::
Set the password. The server and the client should use the same password.

-m <encrypt_method>::
Set the cipher.
+
*Shadowsocks-libev* accepts 18 different ciphers:
+
aes-128-gcm, aes-192-gcm, aes-256-gcm,
rc4-md5, aes-128-cfb, aes-192-cfb, aes-256-cfb,
aes-128-ctr, aes-192-ctr, aes-256-ctr, bf-cfb,
camellia-128-cfb, camellia-192-cfb, camellia-256-cfb,
chacha20-ietf-poly1305, salsa20, chacha20 and chacha20-ietf.
+
The default cipher is 'rc4-md5'.
+
If built with PolarSSL or custom OpenSSL libraries, some of
these ciphers may not work.

-a <user_name>::
Run as a specific user.

-f <pid_file>::
Start shadowsocks as a daemon with specific pid file.

-t <timeout>::
Set the socket timeout in seconds. The default value is 60.

-c <config_file>::
Use a configuration file.
+
You may use "port_password" field inside this configuration file to bring up
multiple ss-server instances together.

-i <interface>::
Send traffic through specific network interface.
+
For example, there are three interfaces in your device,
which is lo (127.0.0.1), eth0 (192.168.0.1) and eth1 (192.168.0.2).
Meanwhile, you configure `ss-local` to listen on 0.0.0.0:8388 and bind to eth1.
That results the traffic go out through eth1, but not lo nor eth0.
This option is useful to control traffic in multi-interface environment.

-u::
 Enable UDP relay.

-U::
Enable UDP relay and disable TCP relay.

-A::
Enable onetime authentication.

-d <addr>::
Setup name servers for internal DNS resolver (libudns).
The default server is fetched from `/etc/resolv.conf`.

--fast-open::
Enable TCP fast open.
+
Only available with Linux kernel > 3.7.0.

--reuse-port::
Enable port reuse.
+
Only available with Linux kernel > 3.9.0.

--acl <acl_config>::
Enable ACL (Access Control List) and specify config file.

--manager-address <path_to_unix_domain>::
Specify UNIX domain socket address for the communication between ss-manager(1) and ss-server(1).
+
Only available in server and manager mode.

--executable <path_to_server_executable>::
Specify the executable path of ss-server.
+
Only available in manager mode.

--plugin <plugin_name>::
Enable SIP003 plugin. (Experimental)

--plugin-opts <plugin_options>::
Set SIP003 plugin options. (Experimental)

-v::
Enable verbose mode.

-h|--help::
Print help message.

PROTOCOL
--------
`ss-manager`(1) provides several APIs through UDP protocol:

Send UDP commands in the following format to the manager-address provided to ss-manager(1): ::::
 command: [JSON data]

To add a port: ::::
 add: {"server_port": 8001, "password":"7cd308cc059"}

To remove a port: ::::
 remove: {"server_port": 8001}

To receive a pong: ::::
 ping

Then `ss-manager`(1) will send back the traffic statistics: ::::
 stat: {"8001":11370}

EXAMPLE
-------
To use `ss-manager`(1), First start it and specify necessary information.

Then communicate with `ss-manager`(1) through UNIX Domain Socket using UDP
protocol:

....
# Start the manager. Arguments for ss-server will be passed to generated
# ss-server process(es) respectively.
ss-manager --manager-address /tmp/manager.sock --executable $(which ss-server) -s example.com -m aes-256-cfb -c /path/to/config.json

# Connect to the socket. Using netcat-openbsd as an example.
# You should use scripts or other programs for further management.
nc -Uu /tmp/manager.sock
....

After that, you may communicate with `ss-manager`(1) as described above in the
'PROTOCOL' section.

SEE ALSO
--------
`ss-local`(1),
`ss-server`(1),
`ss-tunnel`(1),
`ss-redir`(1),
`shadowsocks-libev`(8),
`iptables`(8),
/etc/shadowsocks-libev/config.json

Commit message:

No encryption initial implementation
Set cipher az "none" to disable encryption.

doc/ss-manager.asciidoc, after:

ss-manager(1)
=============

NAME
----
ss-manager - ss-server controller for multi-user management and traffic statistics

SYNOPSIS
--------
*ss-manager*
 [-AuUv] [-h|--help]
 [-s <server_host>] [-p <server_port>] [-l <local_port>]
 [-k <password>] [-m <encrypt_method>] [-f <pid_file>]
 [-t <timeout>] [-c <config_file>] [-i <interface>]
 [-b <local_addr>] [-a <user_name>]
 [--manager-address <path_to_unix_domain>]
 [--executable <path_to_server_executable>]
 [--fast-open] [--reuse-port]
 [--plugin <plugin_name>] [--plugin-opts <plugin_options>]

DESCRIPTION
-----------
*Shadowsocks-libev* is a lightweight and secure socks5 proxy.
It is a port of the original shadowsocks created by clowwindy.
*Shadowsocks-libev* is written in pure C and takes advantage of libev to
achieve both high performance and low resource consumption.

*Shadowsocks-libev* consists of five components.
`ss-manager`(1) is a controller for multi-user management and
traffic statistics, using UNIX domain socket to talk with `ss-server`(1).
Also, it provides a UNIX domain socket or IP based API for other software.
About the details of this API, please refer to the following 'PROTOCOL'
section.

OPTIONS
-------
-s <server_host>::
Set the server's hostname or IP.

-k <password>::
Set the password. The server and the client should use the same password.

-m <encrypt_method>::
Set the cipher or turn off the encryption.
+
To disable encryption use `none` as cipher.
+
*Shadowsocks-libev* accepts 18 different ciphers:
+
aes-128-gcm, aes-192-gcm, aes-256-gcm,
rc4-md5, aes-128-cfb, aes-192-cfb, aes-256-cfb,
aes-128-ctr, aes-192-ctr, aes-256-ctr, bf-cfb,
camellia-128-cfb, camellia-192-cfb, camellia-256-cfb,
chacha20-ietf-poly1305, salsa20, chacha20 and chacha20-ietf.
+
The default cipher is 'rc4-md5'.
+
If built with PolarSSL or custom OpenSSL libraries, some of
these ciphers may not work.

-a <user_name>::
Run as a specific user.

-f <pid_file>::
Start shadowsocks as a daemon with specific pid file.

-t <timeout>::
Set the socket timeout in seconds. The default value is 60.

-c <config_file>::
Use a configuration file.
+
You may use "port_password" field inside this configuration file to bring up
multiple ss-server instances together.

-i <interface>::
Send traffic through specific network interface.
+
For example, there are three interfaces in your device,
which is lo (127.0.0.1), eth0 (192.168.0.1) and eth1 (192.168.0.2).
Meanwhile, you configure `ss-local` to listen on 0.0.0.0:8388 and bind to eth1.
That results the traffic go out through eth1, but not lo nor eth0.
This option is useful to control traffic in multi-interface environment.

-u::
 Enable UDP relay.

-U::
Enable UDP relay and disable TCP relay.

-A::
Enable onetime authentication.

-d <addr>::
Setup name servers for internal DNS resolver (libudns).
The default server is fetched from `/etc/resolv.conf`.

--fast-open::
Enable TCP fast open.
+
Only available with Linux kernel > 3.7.0.

--reuse-port::
Enable port reuse.
+
Only available with Linux kernel > 3.9.0.

--acl <acl_config>::
Enable ACL (Access Control List) and specify config file.

--manager-address <path_to_unix_domain>::
Specify UNIX domain socket address for the communication between ss-manager(1) and ss-server(1).
+
Only available in server and manager mode.

--executable <path_to_server_executable>::
Specify the executable path of ss-server.
+
Only available in manager mode.

--plugin <plugin_name>::
Enable SIP003 plugin. (Experimental)

--plugin-opts <plugin_options>::
Set SIP003 plugin options. (Experimental)

-v::
Enable verbose mode.

-h|--help::
Print help message.

PROTOCOL
--------
`ss-manager`(1) provides several APIs through UDP protocol:

Send UDP commands in the following format to the manager-address provided to ss-manager(1): ::::
 command: [JSON data]

To add a port: ::::
 add: {"server_port": 8001, "password":"7cd308cc059"}

To remove a port: ::::
 remove: {"server_port": 8001}

To receive a pong: ::::
 ping

Then `ss-manager`(1) will send back the traffic statistics: ::::
 stat: {"8001":11370}

EXAMPLE
-------
To use `ss-manager`(1), First start it and specify necessary information.

Then communicate with `ss-manager`(1) through UNIX Domain Socket using UDP
protocol:

....
# Start the manager. Arguments for ss-server will be passed to generated
# ss-server process(es) respectively.
ss-manager --manager-address /tmp/manager.sock --executable $(which ss-server) -s example.com -m aes-256-cfb -c /path/to/config.json

# Connect to the socket. Using netcat-openbsd as an example.
# You should use scripts or other programs for further management.
nc -Uu /tmp/manager.sock
....

After that, you may communicate with `ss-manager`(1) as described above in the
'PROTOCOL' section.

SEE ALSO
--------
`ss-local`(1),
`ss-server`(1),
`ss-tunnel`(1),
`ss-redir`(1),
`shadowsocks-libev`(8),
`iptables`(8),
/etc/shadowsocks-libev/config.json
