doc/ss-server.asciidoc, before:

ss-server(1)
============

NAME
----
ss-server - shadowsocks server, libev port

SYNOPSIS
--------
*ss-server*
 [-uUv] [-h|--help]
 [-s <server_host>] [-p <server_port>] [-l <local_port>]
 [-k <password>] [-m <encrypt_method>] [-f <pid_file>]
 [-t <timeout>] [-c <config_file>] [-i <interface>]
 [-a <user_name>] [-d <addr>] [-n <nofile>]
 [-b <local_address>] [--fast-open] [--reuse-port] [--mptcp]
 [--acl <acl_config>] [--mtu <MTU>]
 [--manager-address <path_to_unix_domain>]
 [--plugin <plugin_name>] [--plugin-opts <plugin_options>]
 [--password <password>] [--key <key_in_base64>]

DESCRIPTION
-----------
*Shadowsocks-libev* is a lightweight and secure socks5 proxy.
It is a port of the original shadowsocks created by clowwindy.
*Shadowsocks-libev* is written in pure C and takes advantage of libev to
achieve both high performance and low resource consumption.

*Shadowsocks-libev* consists of five components.
`ss-server`(1) runs on a remote server to provide secured tunnel service.
For more information, check out `shadowsocks-libev`(8).

OPTIONS
-------
-s <server_host>::
Set the server's hostname or IP.

-p <server_port>::
Set the server's port number.

-k <password>::
--password <password>::
Set the password. The server and the client should use the same password.

--key <key_in_base64>::
Set the key directly. The key should be encoded with URL-safe Base64.

-m <encrypt_method>::
Set the cipher.
+
*Shadowsocks-libev* accepts 18 different ciphers:
+
aes-128-gcm, aes-192-gcm, aes-256-gcm,
rc4-md5, aes-128-cfb, aes-192-cfb, aes-256-cfb,
aes-128-ctr, aes-192-ctr, aes-256-ctr, bf-cfb,
camellia-128-cfb, camellia-192-cfb, camellia-256-cfb,
chacha20-ietf-poly1305, salsa20, chacha20 and chacha20-ietf.
+
If built with PolarSSL or custom OpenSSL libraries, some of
these ciphers may not work.

-a <user_name>::
Run as a specific user.

-f <pid_file>::
Start shadowsocks as a daemon with specific pid file.

-t <timeout>::
Set the socket timeout in seconds. The default value is 60.

-c <config_file>::
Use a configuration file.
+
Refer to `shadowsocks-libev`(8) 'CONFIG FILE' section for more details.

-n <number>::
Specify max number of open files.
+
Only available on Linux.

-i <interface>::
Send traffic through specific network interface.
+
For example, there are three interfaces in your device,
which is lo (127.0.0.1), eth0 (192.168.0.1) and eth1 (192.168.0.2).
Meanwhile, you configure `ss-server` to listen on 0.0.0.0:8388 and bind to eth1.
That results the traffic go out through eth1, but not lo nor eth0.
This option is useful to control traffic in multi-interface environment.

-b <local_address>::
Specify local address to bind.

-u::
Enable UDP relay.

-U::
Enable UDP relay and disable TCP relay.

-6::
Resovle hostname to IPv6 address first.

-d <addr>::
Setup name servers for internal DNS resolver (libudns).
The default server is fetched from '/etc/resolv.conf'.

--fast-open::
Enable TCP fast open.
+
Only available with Linux kernel > 3.7.0.

--reuse-port::
Enable port reuse.
+
Only available with Linux kernel > 3.9.0.

--acl <acl_config>::
Enable ACL (Access Control List) and specify config file.

--manager-address <path_to_unix_domain>::
Specify UNIX domain socket address for the communication between ss-manager(1) and ss-server(1).
+
Only available in server and manager mode.

--mtu <MTU>::
Specify the MTU of your network interface.

--mptcp::
Enable Multipath TCP.
+
Only available with MPTCP enabled Linux kernel.

--plugin <plugin_name>::
Enable SIP003 plugin. (Experimental)

--plugin-opts <plugin_options>::
Set SIP003 plugin options. (Experimental)

-v::
Enable verbose mode.

-h|--help::
Print help message.

EXAMPLE
-------
It is recommended to use a config file when starting `ss-server`(1).

The config file is written in JSON and is easy to edit.
Check out the 'SEE ALSO' section for the default path of config file.

....
# Start the ss-server
ss-server -c /etc/shadowsocks-libev/config.json
....

INCOMPATIBILITY
---------------
The config file of `shadowsocks-libev`(8) is slightly different from original
shadowsocks.

In order to listen to both IPv4/IPv6 address, use the following grammar in
your config json file:
....
{
"server":["::0","0.0.0.0"],
...
}
....

`ss-server`(1) also does not understand "port_password" field in config file.
If you want to start up multiple server instances with a single config file,
please try ss-manager tool. See `ss-manager`(8) for details.

SEE ALSO
--------
`ss-local`(1),
`ss-tunnel`(1),
`ss-redir`(1),
`ss-manager`(1),
`shadowsocks-libev`(8),
`iptables`(8),
/etc/shadowsocks-libev/config.json

Commit message:

No encryption initial implementation
Set cipher az "none" to disable encryption.

doc/ss-server.asciidoc, after:

ss-server(1)
============

NAME
----
ss-server - shadowsocks server, libev port

SYNOPSIS
--------
*ss-server*
 [-uUv] [-h|--help]
 [-s <server_host>] [-p <server_port>] [-l <local_port>]
 [-k <password>] [-m <encrypt_method>] [-f <pid_file>]
 [-t <timeout>] [-c <config_file>] [-i <interface>]
 [-a <user_name>] [-d <addr>] [-n <nofile>]
 [-b <local_address>] [--fast-open] [--reuse-port] [--mptcp]
 [--acl <acl_config>] [--mtu <MTU>]
 [--manager-address <path_to_unix_domain>]
 [--plugin <plugin_name>] [--plugin-opts <plugin_options>]
 [--password <password>] [--key <key_in_base64>]

DESCRIPTION
-----------
*Shadowsocks-libev* is a lightweight and secure socks5 proxy.
It is a port of the original shadowsocks created by clowwindy.
*Shadowsocks-libev* is written in pure C and takes advantage of libev to
achieve both high performance and low resource consumption.

*Shadowsocks-libev* consists of five components.
`ss-server`(1) runs on a remote server to provide secured tunnel service.
For more information, check out `shadowsocks-libev`(8).

OPTIONS
-------
-s <server_host>::
Set the server's hostname or IP.

-p <server_port>::
Set the server's port number.

-k <password>::
--password <password>::
Set the password. The server and the client should use the same password.

--key <key_in_base64>::
Set the key directly. The key should be encoded with URL-safe Base64.

-m <encrypt_method>::
Set the cipher or turn off the encryption.
+
To disable encryption use `none` as cipher.
+
*Shadowsocks-libev* accepts 18 different ciphers:
+
aes-128-gcm, aes-192-gcm, aes-256-gcm,
rc4-md5, aes-128-cfb, aes-192-cfb, aes-256-cfb,
aes-128-ctr, aes-192-ctr, aes-256-ctr, bf-cfb,
camellia-128-cfb, camellia-192-cfb, camellia-256-cfb,
chacha20-ietf-poly1305, salsa20, chacha20 and chacha20-ietf.
+
If built with PolarSSL or custom OpenSSL libraries, some of
these ciphers may not work.

-a <user_name>::
Run as a specific user.

-f <pid_file>::
Start shadowsocks as a daemon with specific pid file.

-t <timeout>::
Set the socket timeout in seconds. The default value is 60.

-c <config_file>::
Use a configuration file.
+
Refer to `shadowsocks-libev`(8) 'CONFIG FILE' section for more details.

-n <number>::
Specify max number of open files.
+
Only available on Linux.

-i <interface>::
Send traffic through specific network interface.
+
For example, there are three interfaces in your device,
which is lo (127.0.0.1), eth0 (192.168.0.1) and eth1 (192.168.0.2).
Meanwhile, you configure `ss-server` to listen on 0.0.0.0:8388 and bind to eth1.
That results the traffic go out through eth1, but not lo nor eth0.
This option is useful to control traffic in multi-interface environment.

-b <local_address>::
Specify local address to bind.

-u::
Enable UDP relay.

-U::
Enable UDP relay and disable TCP relay.

-6::
Resovle hostname to IPv6 address first.

-d <addr>::
Setup name servers for internal DNS resolver (libudns).
The default server is fetched from '/etc/resolv.conf'.

--fast-open::
Enable TCP fast open.
+
Only available with Linux kernel > 3.7.0.

--reuse-port::
Enable port reuse.
+
Only available with Linux kernel > 3.9.0.

--acl <acl_config>::
Enable ACL (Access Control List) and specify config file.

--manager-address <path_to_unix_domain>::
Specify UNIX domain socket address for the communication between ss-manager(1) and ss-server(1).
+
Only available in server and manager mode.

--mtu <MTU>::
Specify the MTU of your network interface.

--mptcp::
Enable Multipath TCP.
+
Only available with MPTCP enabled Linux kernel.

--plugin <plugin_name>::
Enable SIP003 plugin. (Experimental)

--plugin-opts <plugin_options>::
Set SIP003 plugin options. (Experimental)

-v::
Enable verbose mode.

-h|--help::
Print help message.

EXAMPLE
-------
It is recommended to use a config file when starting `ss-server`(1).

The config file is written in JSON and is easy to edit.
Check out the 'SEE ALSO' section for the default path of config file.

....
# Start the ss-server
ss-server -c /etc/shadowsocks-libev/config.json
....

INCOMPATIBILITY
---------------
The config file of `shadowsocks-libev`(8) is slightly different from original
shadowsocks.

In order to listen to both IPv4/IPv6 address, use the following grammar in
your config json file:
....
{
"server":["::0","0.0.0.0"],
...
}
....

`ss-server`(1) also does not understand "port_password" field in config file.
If you want to start up multiple server instances with a single config file,
please try ss-manager tool. See `ss-manager`(8) for details.

SEE ALSO
--------
`ss-local`(1),
`ss-tunnel`(1),
`ss-redir`(1),
`ss-manager`(1),
`shadowsocks-libev`(8),
`iptables`(8),
/etc/shadowsocks-libev/config.json
